Books/The Elements of Style.md, before:

---
author: William Strunk Jr. and E.B. White
datetime: 2024-08-17
---
# 1 Elementary Rules of Usage
##### 1. Form the possessive singular of nouns by adding 's.
*-es, -is*로 끝나는 경우가 아니라면 (       )'s  (  )라고 써라

##### 2. In a serise of three or more terms with a single conjunction, use a comma after each term except the last.
**e.g.** red, white, and blue / gold, silver, or copper

##### 3. Enclose parenthetic expressions between commas.
parenthetic expression인지, 아닌지 판단을 잘 해야 한다.
nonrestrictive clause이면 문장을 두 개로 쪼갤 수 있고 parenthetic하다. 아니라면 못 쪼갠다.

##### 4. Place a comma before a conjunction introducing an independent clause.
> When the subject is the same for both clauses and is expressed only once, a comma is useful if the connectrive is *but*. When th econnective is *and*, the comma should be omitted if the relation between the two statements is close or immediate.

**e.g.**
>    I have heard the argument**, but** am still unconvinced.
>    He has had several years' experience **and** is thoroughly competent.

##### 5. Do not join independent clauses with a comma.
cluases를 하나로 이으려면
1) <font color="#00e676">semicolon 이용</font>
   "It is nearly half past five; we cannot reach town before dark."
2) replace the semicolons with periods
   "It is nearly half past five. We cannot reach town before dark."
3) comma 이용
   "It is nearly half past five, and we cannot reach town before dark."

세 방식을 비교해보면 ;이 더 <font color="#00e676">close relationship</font>을 보여주고, <font color="#00e676">briefer</font> and therefore <font color="#00e676">more forcible</font>. 단, clauses가 너무 짧거나 tone of sentence is easy and conversational일 때는 별로다

##### 6. Do not break sentences in two.
comma 자리에 period 두지 마라. 

##### 7. Use a colon after an independent clause to introduce a list of particulars, an appositive, an amplification, or an illustrative quotation.
1) list of particulars
   완전한 문장 뒤에 colon 붙이고 리스트 업
   "Your dedicated whittler requires **three props:** a knife, a piece of wood, and a back porch."
2) 2nd clause가 1st를 interpret or amplifies할 때
   "But even so, there was a directness and dispatch about animal burial: there was no stopover in the undertaker's foul parlor, no wreath or spray."
3) preceding clause를 support하거나 contribute하는 quotation 앞에
   "The squalor of the streets reminded her of a line from Oscar Wilde: "We are all in the gutter, but some of us are looking at the stars."

##### 8. Use a dash to set off an abrupt break or interruption and to announce a long appositive or summary.
dash는 comma보다 강력한 separation, colon보다 informal, parentheses보다 relaxed

##### 9. The number of the subject determines the number of the verb.
단복수 잘 맞춰라.
**common blunder**
1) *one of ...* + singular verb
2) *each, either, everyone, everybody, neither, nobody, someone* + singular verb
3) *none* (no one or not one) + singular verb
4) *none* (more than one) + plural verb
5) ~~ and ~~ + plural verb
6) 셀 수 없는 명사들 & each, every + singular verb
7) singular subject + *with, as well as, in addition to, except, together with, no less than*  + singular verb
8) 기타 등등... learn the idioms 해라...

##### 10. Use the proper case of pronoun.
comparison할 때 pronoun은 nominative; "understood" verb는 지양. supply해라
"Sandy writes better than **I write**"

gerund + possessive
present participle + objective
$\rightarrow$ 겉보기엔 똑같아보이지만 의미차이가 있다. 

"Do you mind me asking a question?"
"Do you mind my asking a question?"

##### 11. A participial phrase at the beginning of a sentence must refer to the grammatical subject.
분사구문은 주절의 주어를 받는다. 무조건.

---
# 2 Elementary Principles of Composition
##### 12. Choose a suitable design and hold to it.
> The more clearly the writer perceives the shape, the better are the chances of success.

##### 13. Make a paragraph the unit of composition.
> <font color="#00e676">The beginning</font> of each paragraph is a signal that <font color="#00e676">a new step in the development of the subject</font> has been reached.

> As a rule, begin each paragraph either with a sentence that <font color="#00e676">suggests the topic</font> or with a sentence that <font color="#00e676">helps the transition.</font>

> More commonly, <font color="#00e676">the opening sentence</font> simply indicates by its subject <font color="#00e676">the direction the paragraph is to take.</font>

$\Rightarrow$ 첫 문장은 topic or transition으로. 
만일 paragraph가 큰 composition을 구성한다면 그 paragraph의 relation, function를 명시해야

narration이나 description에서는 concise & comprehensive한 statement $\rightarrow$ details로 진행하기도.

> Paragraph breaks used only for show read like the writing of commerce or of display advertising.

$\Rightarrow$ 너무 많이 나누면 distracting & formidable. 적당히 해야 좋다.

##### 14. Use the active voice.
active voice: direct, vigorous, bold, concise, forcible
\+ 문장이 간결해진다

> Many a tame sentence of description or exposition can be made lively and emphatic by substituting a transitive in the active voice for some such perfunctory expression as *there is* or *could be heard*.

**There were** a great number of dead leaves lying on the ground.
$\Rightarrow$ Dead leaves coverd the ground.

At dawn the crowing of a rooster **could be heard**
$\Rightarrow$ The cock's crow came with dawn.

**The reason** he left college was that his health became impaired.
$\Rightarrow$ Failing health compelled him to leave college.

It was not long before she was very sorry that she had said what she had.
$\Rightarrow$ She soon repented her words.

돌려 말하지 말고 직접 표현해라

##### 15. Put statements in positive form.
*not*을 evation으로 쓰지 마라
denial or antithesis로만 써라

negative라도 positive form으로 쓰는 게 더 낫다
**e.g.**
not honest $\rightarrow$ dishonest
not important $\rightarrow$ trifling
did not remember $\rightarrow$ forgot
did not pay any attention to $\rightarrow$ ignored
did not have much confidence in $\rightarrow$ distruste

*not*이 아닌 다른 negative words는 strong하다
**e.g.** Her **loveliness** I never knew

auxiliaries들은 irresolute, lack of authority, uncertainty. 줄이자.
**e.g.** *would, should, could, may, might, can*

##### 16. Use definite, specific, concrete language.
specific > general, definite > vague, concrete > abstract
$\Rightarrow$ definite details, concrete words를 써라

##### 17. Omit needless words.
concise한 vigorous writing을 하려면 불필요한 단어, 문장 다 지우고 every word tell하게 해야 한다.
**e.g.**
there is no doubt but that $\rightarrow$ no doubt (doubtless)
he is a man who $\rightarrow$ he
this is a subject that $\rightarrow$ this subject
the reason why is that $\rightarrow$ because

*the fact that*은 debilitating expression $\rightarrow$ 다 바꿔야 함
예시 참조

##### 18. Avoid a succession of loose sentences.
clause 2개, 2nd는 conjunction이나 relative로 시작하는 loose sentences일 때

loose sentences가 too compact, periodic, formal해지지 않게 예방해주지만 너무 많으면 문제가 됨
*and, but & who, which, when, where, while*을 너무 남발하지는 않는지 확인하기

##### 19. Express coordinate ideas in similar form.
> When repeating a statement to emphasize it, the writer may need to vary its form. Otherwise, the writer should follow the principle of parallel construction.

형태 똑같이 적을 때 article (관사), preposition 놓치지 말고 다 챙겨야 함
형태가 잘 안 맞춰진다면 문장 순서를 바꾸면 됨
**e.g.** 
It was both a long ceremony and very tedious. 
$\rightarrow$ The ceremony was both long and tedious.

##### 20. Keep related words together.
누가 누굴 수식하는지 명확히 할 것
He noticed a large stain in the rug that was right in the center.
$\rightarrow$ He noticed a large stain right in the center of the rug.

> The subject of a sentence and the principal verb should not, as a rule, be separated by a phrase or clause that can be transferred to the beginning.

주어, 동사 사이에 옮길 수 있는 수식어구 달지 마라.

relative pronoun은 antecedent 바로 뒤에 붙어야 함
긴 antecedent라서 애매하게 보인다면 antecedent를 재구성하거나 relative를 바로 뒤로 옮겨

modifier도 단어 바로 옆에 붙여야 함

##### 21. In summaries, keep to one tense.
요약할 때에는 선호도 따라 완료형 쓸 수도 있지만 시제는 1개로 통일해야 한다.
indirect discourse나 question는 past tense여도 됨.

누구 말 인용할 때, 중간마다 "he said," "he stated,"  "the speaker added," "the author also thinks," 계속 쓰지 말고, 처음에 한 번, once for all, 선언하고 단어 낭비하지 마라...



##### 22. Place the emphatic words of a sentence at the end.

---
antecedent 선행사건
chronological 연대순
singly 혼자, 개별적으로
orderly 정돈된
devote 헌신하다, 쏟다
intercalate 사이에 끼어넣다
discourse 담론, 담화
unforeseen 예측하지 못한, 뜻밖의
abide 참다, 머무르다
timid 소심한
triteness 진부함
superfluous 더 이상 필요하지 않은
debilitate 쇠약하게 하다
hastily 성급하게
prose 산문
arouse 불러일으키다, 자극하다, 분발하게 하다
grin 활짝 웃다, 활짝 웃음
forcible 강제적인, 힘찬
noncommittal 뜻이 애매한
auxiliary 조동사, 보조의
repent 뉘우치다
comprehensive 종합적인
concise 간결한
formidable 가공할 만한
gerund  동명사
ludicrous 터무니 없는
preposition 전치사
parentheses 소괄호()
dedicated 헌신적인, ~전용의
appositive 동격
blunder 실수
lest 하지 않도록
attempt 시도하다
perilous 매우 위험한
subordinate 종속된
clause 절, 조항
parenthetic 설명적인, 삽입된
punctuation 구두점
pronominal 대명사의
consonant 자음
singluar 단수형
possessive 소유격

Commit message:

His backup at 2024-10-01 21:33:21
Affected files:
.obsidian/plugins/remember-cursor-position/cursor-positions.json
Books/The Elements of Style.md

Books/The Elements of Style.md, after:

---
author: William Strunk Jr. and E.B. White
datetime: 2024-08-17
---
# 1 Elementary Rules of Usage
##### 1. Form the possessive singular of nouns by adding 's.
*-es, -is*로 끝나는 경우가 아니라면 (       )'s  (  )라고 써라

##### 2. In a serise of three or more terms with a single conjunction, use a comma after each term except the last.
**e.g.** red, white, and blue / gold, silver, or copper

##### 3. Enclose parenthetic expressions between commas.
parenthetic expression인지, 아닌지 판단을 잘 해야 한다.
nonrestrictive clause이면 문장을 두 개로 쪼갤 수 있고 parenthetic하다. 아니라면 못 쪼갠다.

##### 4. Place a comma before a conjunction introducing an independent clause.
> When the subject is the same for both clauses and is expressed only once, a comma is useful if the connectrive is *but*. When th econnective is *and*, the comma should be omitted if the relation between the two statements is close or immediate.

**e.g.**
>    I have heard the argument**, but** am still unconvinced.
>    He has had several years' experience **and** is thoroughly competent.

##### 5. Do not join independent clauses with a comma.
cluases를 하나로 이으려면
1) <font color="#00e676">semicolon 이용</font>
   "It is nearly half past five; we cannot reach town before dark."
2) replace the semicolons with periods
   "It is nearly half past five. We cannot reach town before dark."
3) comma 이용
   "It is nearly half past five, and we cannot reach town before dark."

세 방식을 비교해보면 ;이 더 <font color="#00e676">close relationship</font>을 보여주고, <font color="#00e676">briefer</font> and therefore <font color="#00e676">more forcible</font>. 단, clauses가 너무 짧거나 tone of sentence is easy and conversational일 때는 별로다

##### 6. Do not break sentences in two.
comma 자리에 period 두지 마라. 

##### 7. Use a colon after an independent clause to introduce a list of particulars, an appositive, an amplification, or an illustrative quotation.
1) list of particulars
   완전한 문장 뒤에 colon 붙이고 리스트 업
   "Your dedicated whittler requires **three props:** a knife, a piece of wood, and a back porch."
2) 2nd clause가 1st를 interpret or amplifies할 때
   "But even so, there was a directness and dispatch about animal burial: there was no stopover in the undertaker's foul parlor, no wreath or spray."
3) preceding clause를 support하거나 contribute하는 quotation 앞에
   "The squalor of the streets reminded her of a line from Oscar Wilde: "We are all in the gutter, but some of us are looking at the stars."

##### 8. Use a dash to set off an abrupt break or interruption and to announce a long appositive or summary.
dash는 comma보다 강력한 separation, colon보다 informal, parentheses보다 relaxed

##### 9. The number of the subject determines the number of the verb.
단복수 잘 맞춰라.
**common blunder**
1) *one of ...* + singular verb
2) *each, either, everyone, everybody, neither, nobody, someone* + singular verb
3) *none* (no one or not one) + singular verb
4) *none* (more than one) + plural verb
5) ~~ and ~~ + plural verb
6) 셀 수 없는 명사들 & each, every + singular verb
7) singular subject + *with, as well as, in addition to, except, together with, no less than*  + singular verb
8) 기타 등등... learn the idioms 해라...

##### 10. Use the proper case of pronoun.
comparison할 때 pronoun은 nominative; "understood" verb는 지양. supply해라
"Sandy writes better than **I write**"

gerund + possessive
present participle + objective
$\rightarrow$ 겉보기엔 똑같아보이지만 의미차이가 있다. 

"Do you mind me asking a question?"
"Do you mind my asking a question?"

##### 11. A participial phrase at the beginning of a sentence must refer to the grammatical subject.
분사구문은 주절의 주어를 받는다. 무조건.

---
# 2 Elementary Principles of Composition
##### 12. Choose a suitable design and hold to it.
> The more clearly the writer perceives the shape, the better are the chances of success.

##### 13. Make a paragraph the unit of composition.
> <font color="#00e676">The beginning</font> of each paragraph is a signal that <font color="#00e676">a new step in the development of the subject</font> has been reached.

> As a rule, begin each paragraph either with a sentence that <font color="#00e676">suggests the topic</font> or with a sentence that <font color="#00e676">helps the transition.</font>

> More commonly, <font color="#00e676">the opening sentence</font> simply indicates by its subject <font color="#00e676">the direction the paragraph is to take.</font>

$\Rightarrow$ 첫 문장은 topic or transition으로. 
만일 paragraph가 큰 composition을 구성한다면 그 paragraph의 relation, function를 명시해야

narration이나 description에서는 concise & comprehensive한 statement $\rightarrow$ details로 진행하기도.

> Paragraph breaks used only for show read like the writing of commerce or of display advertising.

$\Rightarrow$ 너무 많이 나누면 distracting & formidable. 적당히 해야 좋다.

##### 14. Use the active voice.
active voice: direct, vigorous, bold, concise, forcible
\+ 문장이 간결해진다

> Many a tame sentence of description or exposition can be made lively and emphatic by substituting a transitive in the active voice for some such perfunctory expression as *there is* or *could be heard*.

**There were** a great number of dead leaves lying on the ground.
$\Rightarrow$ Dead leaves coverd the ground.

At dawn the crowing of a rooster **could be heard**
$\Rightarrow$ The cock's crow came with dawn.

**The reason** he left college was that his health became impaired.
$\Rightarrow$ Failing health compelled him to leave college.

It was not long before she was very sorry that she had said what she had.
$\Rightarrow$ She soon repented her words.

돌려 말하지 말고 직접 표현해라

##### 15. Put statements in positive form.
*not*을 evation으로 쓰지 마라
denial or antithesis로만 써라

negative라도 positive form으로 쓰는 게 더 낫다
**e.g.**
not honest $\rightarrow$ dishonest
not important $\rightarrow$ trifling
did not remember $\rightarrow$ forgot
did not pay any attention to $\rightarrow$ ignored
did not have much confidence in $\rightarrow$ distruste

*not*이 아닌 다른 negative words는 strong하다
**e.g.** Her **loveliness** I never knew

auxiliaries들은 irresolute, lack of authority, uncertainty. 줄이자.
**e.g.** *would, should, could, may, might, can*

##### 16. Use definite, specific, concrete language.
specific > general, definite > vague, concrete > abstract
$\Rightarrow$ definite details, concrete words를 써라

##### 17. Omit needless words.
concise한 vigorous writing을 하려면 불필요한 단어, 문장 다 지우고 every word tell하게 해야 한다.
**e.g.**
there is no doubt but that $\rightarrow$ no doubt (doubtless)
he is a man who $\rightarrow$ he
this is a subject that $\rightarrow$ this subject
the reason why is that $\rightarrow$ because

*the fact that*은 debilitating expression $\rightarrow$ 다 바꿔야 함
예시 참조

##### 18. Avoid a succession of loose sentences.
clause 2개, 2nd는 conjunction이나 relative로 시작하는 loose sentences일 때

loose sentences가 too compact, periodic, formal해지지 않게 예방해주지만 너무 많으면 문제가 됨
*and, but & who, which, when, where, while*을 너무 남발하지는 않는지 확인하기

##### 19. Express coordinate ideas in similar form.
> When repeating a statement to emphasize it, the writer may need to vary its form. Otherwise, the writer should follow the principle of parallel construction.

형태 똑같이 적을 때 article (관사), preposition 놓치지 말고 다 챙겨야 함
형태가 잘 안 맞춰진다면 문장 순서를 바꾸면 됨
**e.g.** 
It was both a long ceremony and very tedious. 
$\rightarrow$ The ceremony was both long and tedious.

##### 20. Keep related words together.
누가 누굴 수식하는지 명확히 할 것
He noticed a large stain in the rug that was right in the center.
$\rightarrow$ He noticed a large stain right in the center of the rug.

> The subject of a sentence and the principal verb should not, as a rule, be separated by a phrase or clause that can be transferred to the beginning.

주어, 동사 사이에 옮길 수 있는 수식어구 달지 마라.

relative pronoun은 antecedent 바로 뒤에 붙어야 함
긴 antecedent라서 애매하게 보인다면 antecedent를 재구성하거나 relative를 바로 뒤로 옮겨

modifier도 단어 바로 옆에 붙여야 함

##### 21. In summaries, keep to one tense.
요약할 때에는 선호도 따라 완료형 쓸 수도 있지만 시제는 1개로 통일해야 한다.
indirect discourse나 question는 past tense여도 됨.

누구 말 인용할 때, 중간마다 "he said," "he stated,"  "the speaker added," "the author also thinks," 계속 쓰지 말고, 처음에 한 번, once for all, 선언하고 단어 낭비하지 마라...

##### 22. Place the emphatic words of a sentence at the end.
> <font color="#00e676">The proper place for </font>the word, or group of words, which the writer desires <font color="#00e676">to make most prominent </font>is usually <font color="#00e676">the end of the entence</font>.

> <font color="#00e676">The other prominent position</font> in the sentence is <font color="#00e676">the beginning</font>.

이게 단어든, 문장이든, 문단이든 다 똑같다. 

---
# A Few Matters of Form


---
shrine 성지
worship 예배하다, 예배
treachery 배반
deceit 속임수, 기만
fret 조바심치다
arise 생기다, 유발하다
predicate 서술부, 근거를 두다, 단정하다
fortitude 불굴의 용기
antecedent 선행사건
chronological 연대순
singly 혼자, 개별적으로
orderly 정돈된
devote 헌신하다, 쏟다
intercalate 사이에 끼어넣다
discourse 담론, 담화
unforeseen 예측하지 못한, 뜻밖의
abide 참다, 머무르다
timid 소심한
triteness 진부함
superfluous 더 이상 필요하지 않은
debilitate 쇠약하게 하다
hastily 성급하게
prose 산문
arouse 불러일으키다, 자극하다, 분발하게 하다
grin 활짝 웃다, 활짝 웃음
forcible 강제적인, 힘찬
noncommittal 뜻이 애매한
auxiliary 조동사, 보조의
repent 뉘우치다
comprehensive 종합적인
concise 간결한
formidable 가공할 만한
gerund  동명사
ludicrous 터무니 없는
preposition 전치사
parentheses 소괄호()
dedicated 헌신적인, ~전용의
appositive 동격
blunder 실수
lest 하지 않도록
attempt 시도하다
perilous 매우 위험한
subordinate 종속된
clause 절, 조항
parenthetic 설명적인, 삽입된
punctuation 구두점
pronominal 대명사의
consonant 자음
singluar 단수형
possessive 소유격
