Papers/@M. Bonavita, 2024.md, before:

---
title: On some limitations of current machine learning weather prediction models
site: https://agupubs.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1029/2023GL107377
summary: 판구가 장기에서 geo, ageo. wind vertical struct 예측을 못하더라.
keyword: 
status:
  - WorkingOn
aliases: 
tags:
  - paper
when_published: 2024-06-24
where_published:
  - Geophysical Research Letters
---
```ad-summary
3줄 요약
```

```ad-abstract
Machine Learning (ML) is having a profound impact in the domain of Weather and Climate Prediction. A recent development in this area has been the emergence of fully data‐driven ML prediction models which routinely claim superior performance to that of traditional physics‐based models. We examine some aspects of the forecasts produced by three of the leading current ML models, <span style="background:rgba(205, 244, 105, 0.55)">Pangu‐Weather, FourCastNet and GraphCast</span>, with a focus on their fidelity and physical consistency. The main conclusion is that these <span style="background:rgba(205, 244, 105, 0.55)">ML models are not able to properly reproduce sub‐synoptic and mesoscale weather phenomena</span> and <span style="background:rgba(205, 244, 105, 0.55)">lack the fidelity and physical consistency</span> of physics‐based models and this has impacts on the interpretation of their forecasts and their perceived skill. Balancing forecast skill and physical realism will be an important consideration for future ML models.
```

# Introduction

---
# Conclusion

---
# Method

---
# Result

---
# References

Commit message:

His automatic backup at 2024-08-07 13:35:18
Affected files:
.obsidian/plugins/editing-toolbar/data.json
.obsidian/plugins/obsidian-completr/scanned_words.txt
.obsidian/plugins/recent-files-obsidian/data.json
.obsidian/plugins/remember-cursor-position/cursor-positions.json
.obsidian/workspace.json
Papers/@M. Bonavita, 2024.md
Papers/Hierarchical Temporal Aggregation, HTA.md

Papers/@M. Bonavita, 2024.md, after:

---
title: On some limitations of current machine learning weather prediction models
site: https://agupubs.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1029/2023GL107377
summary: 판구가 장기에서 geo, ageo. wind vertical struct 예측을 못하더라.
keyword: 
status:
  - WorkingOn
aliases: 
tags:
  - paper
when_published: 2024-06-24
where_published:
  - Geophysical Research Letters
---
```ad-summary
3줄 요약
```

```ad-abstract
Machine Learning (ML) is having a profound impact in the domain of Weather and Climate Prediction. A recent development in this area has been the emergence of fully data‐driven ML prediction models which routinely claim superior performance to that of traditional physics‐based models. We examine some aspects of the forecasts produced by three of the leading current ML models, <span style="background:rgba(205, 244, 105, 0.55)">Pangu‐Weather, FourCastNet and GraphCast</span>, with a focus on their fidelity and physical consistency. The main conclusion is that these <span style="background:rgba(205, 244, 105, 0.55)">ML models are not able to properly reproduce sub‐synoptic and mesoscale weather phenomena</span> and <span style="background:rgba(205, 244, 105, 0.55)">lack the fidelity and physical consistency</span> of physics‐based models and this has impacts on the interpretation of their forecasts and their perceived skill. Balancing forecast skill and physical realism will be an important consideration for future ML models.
```

# Introduction
ML-based  모델이 급격히 발전하고 있다.
w/ 예시 모델들

여기서는
> The apporach we have taken is to choose a representative sample of the current generation of MLWP model, Pangu-Weather, FourCastNet and GraphCast and analyze their forecast output from<font color="#00e676"> the point of view of physical consistency and fidelity.</font> 

---
# Data and Methods
> As noted by the Pangu-Weather developers, the <font color="#00e676">repeated application</font> of an imperfect model leads to rapid <font color="#00e676">accumulation of errors</font> and can limit its predictive skill. 

> MLWP models <font color="#00e676">oviate this probelm </font>by progressively<font color="#00e676"> increasing the forecast horizon </font>over which the ML model is trained, typically at the price of <font color="#00e676">increased smoothness</font> of the forecasted states.

Pangu는 문제 해결 위해 [[Hierarchical Temporal Aggregation, HTA]] 사용

---
# Spectral Diagnostics
MLWP의 잘 알려진 문제는 lead time따라 forecast가 "blurry"해진다는 것.

---
# Result

---
# References
