Papers/WMO, 2012.md, before:

---
title: Guidelines on Ensemble Prediction System and Forecasting
site: https://library.wmo.int/records/item/48473-guidelines-on-ensemble-prediction-systems-and-forecasting
summary: 
keyword: 
status:
  - WorkingOn
aliases: 
tags:
  - paper
when_published: 2012-01-01
where_published:
  - WMO
---
```ad-summary
3줄 요약
```

```ad-abstract
Ensemble Prediction Systems (EPS) are numerical weather prediction (NWP) systems that allow us to estimate the uncertainty in a weather forecast as well as the most likely outcome. Instead of running the NWP model once (a deterministic forecast), the model is run many times from very slightly different initial conditions. Often the model physics is also slightly perturbed, and some ensembles use more than one model within the ensemble (multi-model EPS) or the same model but with different combinations of physical parameterization schemes (multi-physics EPS). Owing to the cost of running an NWP model many times, the EPS is normally run at around half the horizontal resolution of the equivalent deterministic NWP model. The EPS normally includes a control forecast that uses the ensemble resolution model but without any perturbations to the analysis or model. The individual NWP solutions that make up the ensemble are often referred to as the ensemble members. The range of different solutions in the forecast allows us to assess the uncertainty in the forecast, and how confident we should be in a deterministic forecast. The uncertainty in a weather forecast can vary widely from day to day according to the synoptic situation, and the EPS approach provides an estimate of this day-to-day uncertainty. The EPS is designed to sample the probability distribution function (pdf) of the forecast, and is often used to produce probability forecasts – to assess the probability that certain outcomes will occur. The present guidelines are intended to provide some general advice to forecasters and forecast providers on the effective use of EPS, and on what EPS can and cannot be expected to provide. A general working knowledge of the principles and use of NWP is assumed.
```

# 2. Why Should We Use EPS?

Direct Model Output (DMO)에서 weather forecast를 바로 뽑아낼 수 있는 NWP 모델들이 많지만 어떤 var에는 좋고 어떤 var에는 안 좋다. 
e.g. surface temperature는 잘 하지만 tp는 잘 못하더라

EPS 쓰는 이유
small errors in initial analysis에 atm evolves가 very sensitive하다는 Chaos theory.
best observation $\neq$ perfect analysis $\Rightarrow$ $\not \exists$ perfect forecast

small change = perturbation (동요, 작은 변화)
perturbation을 starting condition analysis에 주고 re-run the model
결과로 confidence 판단

1-2 days 단위 short-range forecast이더라도 local detail이 틀릴 수도 있다
larger-scale에서 short range도 e.g. major storm

---
# 3. Types of EPS
## 1) Global EPS
medium-range forecasting of 3-15 days ahead
주로 low-resolution; 30~70km

## 2) Regional EPS
Limited Area Model (LAM) EPS라고도 부름
short-range forecast of 1~3 days ahead
7~30km resolution
$\exists$ lateral boundary conditions $:=$ weather sys moving into the area from outside the domain

## 3) Convective-scale EPS
convection-permitting이라고도 부름
1-4km resolution
evolve very rapidly & short predictability timescale이라서 chaos에 영향 많이 받음(?)


---
# 4. Standard EPS Products

1) ensemble mean
2) ensemble spread
3) basic probability
4) quantiles
5) spaghetti maps
6) postage stamp maps
7) site-specific meteograms

---
# 5. General Comments Appling to All Use of EPS


---
# 6. Use of EPS in Deterministic forecasting

---
# 7. Scenarios

---
# 8. Full Probabilistic forecasts

---
# 9. Post-Processing

Commit message:

His automatic backup at 2024-07-31 11:27:14
Affected files:
.obsidian/graph.json
.obsidian/plugins/obsidian-completr/scanned_words.txt
.obsidian/plugins/recent-files-obsidian/data.json
.obsidian/plugins/remember-cursor-position/cursor-positions.json
.obsidian/workspace.json
File/Pasted image 20240731110640.png
File/Pasted image 20240731110643.png
Papers/WMO, 2012.md

Papers/WMO, 2012.md, after:

---
title: Guidelines on Ensemble Prediction System and Forecasting
site: https://library.wmo.int/records/item/48473-guidelines-on-ensemble-prediction-systems-and-forecasting
summary: 
keyword: 
status:
  - WorkingOn
aliases: 
tags:
  - paper
when_published: 2012-01-01
where_published:
  - WMO
---
```ad-summary
3줄 요약
```

```ad-abstract
Ensemble Prediction Systems (EPS) are numerical weather prediction (NWP) systems that allow us to estimate the uncertainty in a weather forecast as well as the most likely outcome. Instead of running the NWP model once (a deterministic forecast), the model is run many times from very slightly different initial conditions. Often the model physics is also slightly perturbed, and some ensembles use more than one model within the ensemble (multi-model EPS) or the same model but with different combinations of physical parameterization schemes (multi-physics EPS). Owing to the cost of running an NWP model many times, the EPS is normally run at around half the horizontal resolution of the equivalent deterministic NWP model. The EPS normally includes a control forecast that uses the ensemble resolution model but without any perturbations to the analysis or model. The individual NWP solutions that make up the ensemble are often referred to as the ensemble members. The range of different solutions in the forecast allows us to assess the uncertainty in the forecast, and how confident we should be in a deterministic forecast. The uncertainty in a weather forecast can vary widely from day to day according to the synoptic situation, and the EPS approach provides an estimate of this day-to-day uncertainty. The EPS is designed to sample the probability distribution function (pdf) of the forecast, and is often used to produce probability forecasts – to assess the probability that certain outcomes will occur. The present guidelines are intended to provide some general advice to forecasters and forecast providers on the effective use of EPS, and on what EPS can and cannot be expected to provide. A general working knowledge of the principles and use of NWP is assumed.
```

# 2. Why Should We Use EPS?

Direct Model Output (DMO)에서 weather forecast를 바로 뽑아낼 수 있는 NWP 모델들이 많지만 어떤 var에는 좋고 어떤 var에는 안 좋다. 
e.g. surface temperature는 잘 하지만 tp는 잘 못하더라

EPS 쓰는 이유
small errors in initial analysis에 atm evolves가 very sensitive하다는 Chaos theory.
best observation $\neq$ perfect analysis $\Rightarrow$ $\not \exists$ perfect forecast

small change = perturbation (동요, 작은 변화)
perturbation을 starting condition analysis에 주고 re-run the model
결과로 confidence 판단

1-2 days 단위 short-range forecast이더라도 local detail이 틀릴 수도 있다
larger-scale에서 short range도 e.g. major storm

---
# 3. Types of EPS
## 1) Global EPS
medium-range forecasting of 3-15 days ahead
주로 low-resolution; 30~70km

## 2) Regional EPS
Limited Area Model (LAM) EPS라고도 부름
short-range forecast of 1~3 days ahead
7~30km resolution
$\exists$ lateral boundary conditions $:=$ weather sys moving into the area from outside the domain

## 3) Convective-scale EPS
convection-permitting이라고도 부름
1-4km resolution
evolve very rapidly & short predictability timescale이라서 chaos에 영향 많이 받음(?)


---
# 4. Standard EPS Products

1) ensemble mean
   mean of all param value btw all ensemble members
2) ensemble spread
   std of a model output var. $\rightarrow$ level of uncertainty 
3) basic probability
   proportion of the ensemble members that predict an event to occur at a particular location or grid point
4) quantiles
5) spaghetti maps
   ![[Pasted image 20240731110643.png]]
6) postage stamp maps
   a set of small maps showing contoured plots of each ensemble indiv members
7) site-specific meteograms
   a graphical presentation of one or more meteorological variables with respect to time, whether observed or forecast, for a particular location

---
# 5. General Comments Appling to All Use of EPS


---
# 6. Use of EPS in Deterministic forecasting

---
# 7. Scenarios

---
# 8. Full Probabilistic forecasts

---
# 9. Post-Processing
